Skip to content

  * Work With Us
  * Contact Us

Search Search

  * Home
  * PlacesExpand
    * Portugal
    * Gardens
    * Thailand
  * Style
  * Food & DrinkExpand
    * Wines
    * Wine Pairings
    * Glassware
  * Savoir faire
  * Wellness
  * AboutExpand
    * About Us
    * Work With Us
    * Contact Us

Pinterest Twitter

Explore with Tess

Toggle Menu

_Note: This post contains affiliate links. Simply put, if you click on a
product and make a purchase, we may make a small commission. This is at no
extra cost to you. For more information, please see our disclaimer and privacy
policy._

# Beef Wellington Wine Pairing: 15 Delectable Choices

A Beef Wellington wine pairing is a feast for the senses. You can't help but
imagine that with all of those layers, textures, and flavors one would need to
give full consideration to wines that complement without overwhelming this
delectable dish.

Beef Wellington is a dish consisting of a fillet of beef spread with duxelles
and pâté de foie gras, wrapped in layers of puff pastry and baked. The outside
layer provides a crispy finish, while the inside remains tender because the
layers keep it from cooking too quickly.

Beef Wellington is a dish that was considered "the height of English cuisine"
in the early 20th century. The origin stories for this iconic meal are
diverse, and most likely myths as well.

Nevertheless, the legendary dish lives on as a quintessential British dish -
despite the possible French origins!

Our guide to a Beef Wellington Wine pairing will prepare you for a special
celebratory meal or a fabulous date night. This is a dish that is always sure
to impress!

As any foodie knows, the wine you drink with your meal can have an impact on
how it tastes. Join us as we explore wines that pair well with Beef
Wellington!

Table of Contents

  * Where does Beef Wellington originate?
  * What is so special about Beef Wellington?
    * What cut of meat is Beef Wellington?
    * What do you serve with Beef Wellington?
  * Beef Wellington Recipes
    * Traditional Beef Wellington Recipe
    * Easy Beef Wellington Recipes
    * Beef Wellington Recipes Without Mushrooms
    * Beef Wellington Recipes for Two
  * Top Selections for a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing
    * Côte Rôtie: The Most Elegant Selection for a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing
    * Top Picks from 2 of the World's Exceptional Pinot Noir Producing Regions 
    * Barolo - the King of Italian Red Wines
    * 4 Exquisite Bordeaux Red Blends
    * 4 Options for a Versatile Spanish Grenache
  * Final Thoughts on a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing

Pin now to save for later!

## Where does Beef Wellington originate?

Even the academics can’t agree on this one. There are just too many stories
out there and none with sufficient evidence of origin. What’s more, England
isn’t the only country claiming this famous beef recipe.

Let’s examine what we do know:

  * England, France, Poland, Scotland, and Ireland are among the countries who claim this classic beef dish.
  * Some historians say the most credible origin story points to an English general. Beef Wellington's namesake, Arthur Wellesley, was the Duke of Wellington and General who defeated Napoleon Bonaparte at Waterloo in 1815.
  * In the USA, Beef Wellington was at a chic peak in the 1960s and ‘70s. You couldn’t have a proper dinner without serving guests Beef Wellington. 
  * The Kennedy’s White House French Chef prepared "Filet de Boeuf en Croûte."
  * Julia Child featured the recipe on her show in the mid-1960s. 
  * Nixon required his chef to serve it at every state dinner and the recipe was included in the White House cookbook.
  * The first recipe for Beef Wellington in the US appeared in 1940 in the Palmer House Cookbook, according to the Food Timeline.

## What is so special about Beef Wellington?

Beef Wellington is such an iconic dish for a reason. The perfect combination
of spices and meat, delicate pastry dough that wraps around it like a blanket
to ensure the beef stays juicy inside until cooked just right.

Beef Wellington has had people coming back again and again since its inception
centuries ago!

Perhaps what keeps us returning is how complex this recipe can be. Famous
chefs have their own signature versions with different ingredient
combinations, but they're all fantastic in their own way; there's no wrong
answer when you order Beef Wellington at your favorite restaurant or prepare
it yourself from scratch.

After one bite or carefully crafted slice through succulent layers of savory
flavors bursting forth on every side, I think we'll understand why so many are
drawn to this mouthwatering dish.

### What cut of meat is Beef Wellington?

A traditional dish served often during the holidays, Beef Wellington is made
from a center cut of meat that's traditionally considered to be one of the
most tender and juicy - usually beef (or veal) tenderloin or filet mignon.

### What do you serve with Beef Wellington?

For a side dish to complement Beef Wellington, it is best to avoid recipes
with a heavy sauce. That means no cheesy potatoes, pastas, or saucy
vegetables. Wellington is center stage in this meal.

We recommend staying with traditionally served sides, such as:

  * Roasted vegetables - carrots, asparagus, Brussel sprouts, herbed potatoes 
  * Delicately seasoned green beans

**Related:** Go Bold and Red for an Osso Buco Wine Pairing

## Beef Wellington Recipes

The Beef Wellington recipe has many variations depending on the ingredients
and instructions. But no matter what variation, it is a dish that will never
go out of style among foodies or at dinner parties!

### Traditional Beef Wellington Recipe

Gordon Ramsay’s Beef Wellington is top on the recipe board for this classic
British holiday dish.

But America’s **Julia Child** helped make Beef Wellington so popular that even
White House chefs made it a standard dish for state dinners. Her Filet of Beef
Wellington was first presented on her TV show in 1965.

### Easy Beef Wellington Recipes

I’m not the world’s most patient cook. I’m always looking for shortcuts that
don’t sacrifice taste.

In my family, we’ve been using Campbell’s soup in recipes ever since I can
remember! Their recipes are always delicious and easy to make.

When I saw that Campbell’s had a Beef Wellington recipe, I was intrigued. I
couldn’t imagine how they were going to use a can of soup to make this dish.
Turns out, they don’t. But they do offer a simple process to making a Classic
Beef Wellington.

To further demystify this intimidating dish, who better to turn to than a
**Certified Food and Culinary Scientist**!

“I enjoy developing & sharing recipes in my home test kitchen where I’m able
to infuse food science knowledge in every recipe,” says Jessica Gavin. “I love
the challenge of creating eye-catching dishes while maintaining the quality of
the product and balancing flavors.”

Jessica leaves no morsel unturned in her step-by-step guide that includes
photo illustrations. If you have never prepared Beef Wellington, her recipe is
the best place to start.

Learn more in her book: Easy Culinary Science for Better Cooking

### Beef Wellington Recipes Without Mushrooms

When you love Tex-Mex and BBQ as much as my family, it’s no surprise that we’d
stumble across the incredibly popular food blog Kevin is Cooking.

What was a little surprising was to find a Beef Wellington recipe. But, then
again, it is meat!  
I was hooked on this recipe for individual Beef Wellingtons when I saw
caramelized onions!

Kevin says that these are a little labor intensive, but considering an
individual serving can be made ahead and frozen AND gives you an extra helping
of flaky crust and extra crust - I’m hooked!

### Beef Wellington Recipes for Two

Zona is a home cook who loves to downsize recipes for easy dishes for two. She
also posts some larger meals that she has made with her family so other people
can try them out as well!

Her blog Zona Cooks caters to anyone who enjoys cooking no matter what their
skill level may be, which makes this the perfect place if you're looking for
new ideas in your own kitchen.

Zona created a recipe for mini Beef Wellingtons perfect for a special date
night. She suggests serving it with steamed broccoli and mashed potatoes.

> View this post on Instagram
>
> A post shared by Zona Cooks (@zonacooksfortwo)

The most successful hosts are the ones who know how to take care of their
guests. If you're looking for a way to entertain that's stress-free, Michele
has got it all figured out with her cooking and lifestyle blog West Via
Midwest. She shares recipes as well as tips on hosting your social event.

Along with her detailed step-by-step instructions for a Simple Beef Wellington
for Two, she shares a few tips that are sure to make everything go to plan!

## Top Selections for a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing

There are a few guidelines to follow when choosing the perfect wine pairing.

  * Try matching the flavor intensity between what you’re eating and drinking; this will prevent any overpowering flavors from coming through too strongly in either direction.
  * With fatty foods, choose high tannin wines that help cut through content found in sauces, meats, and cheese.

“Tannins are able to clear the mouth of fattiness and refresh the palate in
between bites that may be rich in fats,” according to the academic paper The
Chemistry of Matching Italian Foods with Wines. “Because of this, highly
tannic wines are usually paired well with fatty foods.”

For a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing, focus on the flavors of the dish as a
whole rather than the beef alone.  The key consideration in choosing a wine
for Beef Wellington is to consider the spices, mushrooms, and meat.

Although some experts may recommend a full-bodied red wine for the Beef
Wellington, we're suggesting slightly lighter wines. Yes, this dish features
tenderloin or filet mignon, but at Explore with Tess, we prefer medium bodied
reds that will go best with the overall flavor profile.

Our top picks for a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing consists of:

  * Côte-Rôtie from Rhone, France
  * French Pinot Noir from the Côte de Nuits and Oregon’s Willamette Valley
  * Barolo from Piedmont, Italy
  * Bordeaux red blends from St. Emilion and Pomerol, France
  * Garnacha red blends from Spain

### Côte Rôtie: The Most Elegant Selection for a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing

Nestled at the northernmost point of France's prestigious Rhône Valley wine
region, Côte Rôtie is one of the oldest and most prestigious vineyards in all
of France. The steep slopes facing the river and its stone walls create a
beautifully rugged landscape with rich soil for producing warm, robust red
wines that are dark when they're young but become softer and develop an
excellent bouquet as they age. Syrah and Viognier grape varieties make up most
acres planted on these hills bathed in sun.

Vernay's 2017 Côte Rôtie Blonde du Seigneur

2017 Côte Rôtie Brune Et Blonde

Barruol Lynch Cote Rotie Les Roses 2017

### Top Picks from 2 of the World’s Exceptional Pinot Noir Producing Regions

The Côte de Nuits is a French wine region located in the northern part of the
Côte d'Or, which is at the heart of Burgundy. The wines grown along this
narrow strip are most famous for reds made from the Pinot Noir grape and have
been called "the Champs-Elysées" due to their exceptional character.

The Willamette Valley, Oregon's leading wine region and popular tourist
destination, has two-thirds of the state’s wineries and vineyards and is home
to nearly 700 wineries. It is recognized as one of the premier Pinot
Noir–producing areas in the world.

Sitting on a latitude that mirrors some great wine regions, Bordeaux and
Burgundy (France), this valley stretches from north Portland all the way down
south of Eugene—or roughly 100 miles long and 60 miles at its widest!

Enjoy these four selections of Pinot Noir for a classic Beef Wellington Wine
Pairing.

  * Louis Latour Marsannay Rouge 2018
  * Domaine Bertagna Hautes Cotes de Nuits 2017
  * Siduri Willamette Valley Pinot Noir 2018
  * Cloudline Pinot Noir 2019

### Barolo - the King of Italian Red Wines

Known as the king of wines, Barolo is a red wine from Italy’s Piedmont region.

Throughout its history, Barolo has gone through many changes to production
methods. In the 1980s, there were fierce arguments between traditionalists and
modernists over how wine should be made; these disagreements became known as
‘The Barolo Wars.’

Who wouldn’t stake their claim on one of the world’s most prized wines! Many
experts consider Barolo wines as some sort of holy grail for those who enjoy
fine reds, and you'll know why after tasting it for yourself!

  * Marchesi di Barolo Maraia Barbera di Monferrato 2019 (under $15)
  * Marchesi di Barolo Barbera d'Alba Ruvei 2018 (under $20)
  * Marchesi di Barolo Tradizione Barolo 2015 (under $60)

Saint Émilion, Bordeaux, France. _Image byJordy Meow from Pixabay._

### 4 Exquisite Bordeaux Red Blends

The wines of Saint-Émilion are typically blended from different grape
varieties, the three main ones being Merlot, Cabernet Franc, and Cabernet
Sauvignon. These grapes create complex yet heady wines that will please even
the most sophisticated palates with their complexity.

The vines around Saint Émilion have been there since Roman times; today it is
one of Bordeaux's largest wine appellations for production as well as a
producer of some of its finest long-lived and expensive blends.

Pomerol wine producers make some of the best blends in Bordeaux because it has
a distinctive terroir. In 1923, French authorities recognized Pomerol as a
region apart from Saint-Émilion and its greater Libournais region. AOC status
was granted to this small but exquisite area in 1936.

Our recommended wines from these regions are:

  * Chateau Lyonnat Lussac Saint Emilion 2015 (under $30)
  * Domaines Barons de Rothschild Legende Saint Emilion 2016 (under $50)
  * Chateau La Grave a Pomerol 2016 (under $65)
  * Chateau Lecuyer Pomerol 2019 (under $65)

### 4 Options for a Versatile Spanish Grenache

For a medium-bodied wine with tremendous balance and versatility, the Spanish
Grenache makes the perfect choice for a Beef Wellington wine pairing.

Garnacha is a grape that has been around for centuries, and it's the third
most planted red variety in Spain.

Spanish Grenache wines are typically characterized by their vibrant color,
balanced acidity, and fruitiness in taste with typical notes of raspberry,
strawberry, and cherry on the finish.

These traits make them perfect for pairing with all kinds of foods from light
dishes like roasted chicken to heartier meat-based entrees to cheeses like
Manchego without being too sweet or overpowering!

We’ve chosen 4 bottles of Grenache at terrific price points:

  * La Nevera Garnacha Carinena 2017 (under $15)
  * Campos de Luz Crianza Garnacha 2014 (under $15)
  * Las Rocas Garnacha 2018 (under $15)
  * Bodegas Breca Garnacha de Fuego 2019 (under $10)

Pin to Save!

## Final Thoughts on a Beef Wellington Wine Pairing

We hope you’ve found this information insightful and helpful in your search of
what wine would be perfect with Beef Wellington.

What kind of wine do you usually drink? Let us know in the comments section
below.

Sharing is Caring!

  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Pinterest

## Post navigation

Previous Previous

Go Bold and Red for an Osso Buco Wine Pairing

NextContinue

The Ultimate Guide to Wine Pairing with Pork

## Similar Posts

Food & Drink

### French Wine Gifts For the Lover of Sophisticated Wine

ByJessie Synan March 9, 2021March 9, 2021

23 of the best French wine gifts to satisfy any wine enthusiast

Read More French Wine Gifts For the Lover of Sophisticated WineContinue

Wines | Food & Drink

### Taste the tropical flavor and health benefits of pineapple wine

ByTeresa Lamsam January 5, 2022January 5, 2022

If you have yet to taste the tropical delight of pineapple wine, let us guide
you through all the reasons you should and make a few recommendations of where
to start.

Read More Taste the tropical flavor and health benefits of pineapple
wineContinue

Wine Pairings | Food & Drink

### The Ultimate Guide to Wine Pairing with Pork

ByTeresa Lamsam August 30, 2021August 30, 2021

Pork is wine friendly! A wine pairing with pork can include wine from anywhere
in the wine world. Use this guide to help narrow down your selection!

Read More The Ultimate Guide to Wine Pairing with PorkContinue

Food & Drink | Glassware

### 20 Best Wine Glass Charms to Fit Every Occasion

ByTeresa Lamsam March 15, 2021August 17, 2021

Our guide ranks some of the most delightful, fun, and beautiful wine glass
charms and offers ideas for your next wine tasting.

Read More 20 Best Wine Glass Charms to Fit Every OccasionContinue

Glassware | Food & Drink

### A Guide to 36 Plastic Wine Glasses Just Right for You!

ByTeresa Lamsam September 15, 2021September 15, 2021

Plastic wine glasses are a great option for many reasons. In our guide we
showcase a gallery of Top Picks and cover how to select one perfect for your
uses.

Read More A Guide to 36 Plastic Wine Glasses Just Right for You!Continue

Wine Pairings | Food & Drink

### The Exclusive Guide to Manchego Cheese Wine Pairing

ByTeresa Lamsam March 7, 2021March 20, 2021

A cheese and wine experience can be more than a culinary delight. As in the
case of a Manchego cheese wine pairing, the experience can transport you to
Spain’s ancient agrarian plains.

Read More The Exclusive Guide to Manchego Cheese Wine PairingContinue

### Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment *

Name *

Email *

Website

Δ

Pinterest Twitter

  * Privacy Policy
  * Terms Of Use
  * Disclaimer
  * California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)

(C) 2024 Explore with Tess - WordPress Theme by Kadence WP

We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by
remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you
consent to the use of ALL the cookies.

Do not sell my personal information.

Cookie SettingsAccept

Manage consent

Close

#### Privacy Overview

This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate
through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as
necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of
basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that
help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be
stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to
opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect
your browsing experience.

Necessary

Necessary

Always Enabled

Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function
properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of
the website, anonymously.Cookie| Duration| Description  
---|---|---  
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie
Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies
in the category "Analytics".  
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional| 11 months| The cookie is set by GDPR cookie
consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category
"Functional".  
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie
Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies
in the category "Necessary".  
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie
Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies
in the category "Other.  
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance| 11 months| This cookie is set by GDPR
Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the
cookies in the category "Performance".  
viewed_cookie_policy| 11 months| The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent
plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of
cookies. It does not store any personal data.  
  
Functional

Functional

Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the
content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other
third-party features.

Performance

Performance

Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance
indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for
the visitors.

Analytics

Analytics

Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the
website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of
visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and
marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect
information to provide customized ads.

Others

Others

Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not
been classified into a category as yet.

SAVE & ACCEPT

  *   * 
Scroll to top Scroll to top

  * Home
  * PlacesToggle child menuExpand

    * Portugal
    * Gardens
    * Thailand
  * Style
  * Food & DrinkToggle child menuExpand

    * Wines
    * Wine Pairings
    * Glassware
  * Savoir faire
  * Wellness
  * AboutToggle child menuExpand

    * About Us
    * Work With Us
    * Contact Us

Toggle Menu Close

Search for:

Search

